Link: https://blog.reserve.org/eusd-emerges-strong-the-resilience-of-reserve-protocol-during-usdc-depegging-e5a698a990c9
Title: eUSD Emerges Strong: The Resilience of Reserve Protocol During USDC Depegging

On March 11th, Circle — the issuer of USD Coin (USDC) — revealed it could not withdraw $3.3 billion of its $40 billion reserves from Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) after the bank faced a sudden bank run and capital crisis. The market reacted immediately after, causing USDC to lose its peg and continue to trade as low as $0.87.

eUSD, an asset-backed stablecoin created with Reserve Protocol, was comprised of 50% USDC derivatives. And yet, it had no issue whatsoever overcoming this unforeseen occurrence.

How was eUSD able to weather the storm when USDC struggled to maintain its peg? The answer lies in the unique design of Reserve Protocol — read on to learn more about how it works.

When Stablecoins Aren’t Stable: Understanding the Factors Behind USDC’s Depeg
The USDC stablecoin is backed by a reserve of assets, including US dollars and short-term US Treasury bonds. According to Circle’s January reserve report, the firm held ~$9.88 billion of cash deposited across 7 regulated banks to back USDC’s value — one of which was Silicon Valley Bank (SVB).

Over the past few years, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) had invested over $80 billion in long-term mortgage-backed securities. When the Fed raised interest rates in 2022, the value of the securities plummeted, recently causing SVB to sell $21 billion of its securities at a $1.8bn loss. At the same time Silicon Valley Bank depositors, who were largely startups and other tech-centric companies, began withdrawing their deposits for various reasons, primarily due to the spread of rumors on social media about SVB’s possible insolvency. So the bank found itself with a large amount of unrealized losses in bonds just as the pace of customer withdrawals was escalating.

Since many of the customers had deposits of over $250,000, which is the U.S. government-imposed limit on deposit insurance, they were more fearful of a bank failure — which likely triggered further withdrawals — a bank run — and contributed to the bank’s eventual insolvency.

On March 10th, California’s financial watchdog shut down SVB and the FDIC took over. On March 11th, Circle confirmed that $3.3 billion of USDC’s reserves remained at SVB.

The redeemability of one-third of USDC’s cash reserves became uncertain, resulting in mass selling of the stablecoin, causing USDC to lose its peg and eventually trade as low as $0.87.

eUSD and Reserve Protocol: A Case Study in Stablecoin Stability During Market Turmoil
To comprehend how eUSD, the asset-backed stablecoin created with Reserve Protocol, withstood the crisis despite being backed 50% by USDC derivatives, it is essential to understand several key mechanisms of “RTokens” (the generic name for stablecoins created on Reserve Protocol).

RTokens can be created permissionlessly, allowing for the selection of the stablecoin’s collateral basket and governance structure. eUSD, which was created by MobileCoin utilizing the Reserve Protocol, initially utilized 25% cUSDC, 25% aUSDC, 25% cUSDT, and 25% aUSDT as backing. This backing can at all times be updated by governance, but this process requires a minimum of 7 days to complete.

If the design of eUSD had concluded at that point, stablecoin holders would have encountered tremendous anxiety throughout the past weekend’s events — unsure if they would ever be able to redeem the full original worth of their eUSD holdings. However, a unique element of RTokens’ design saved the day, ultimately resolving any concerns prior to the opening of SVB’s doors by the FDIC on Monday. I’m talking about the RToken’s overcollateralization provided by staked RSR.

Representation of eUSD before March 10th. The black circle represents the staked RSR overcollateralization.
Reserve Rights (RSR) token holders have the option to stake on an RToken of their choosing, thereby providing governance and acting as the first-loss capital in the event of a collateral default. In return, they receive a portion of the revenue generated by the RToken through its yield-bearing collateral. The MobileCoin team decided to put the highest emphasis on safety and reliability of eUSD, redirecting 100% of revenue to RSR holders that decided to stake on eUSD.

With that context in mind, here’s a full breakdown of how this weekend’s events went down:

Saturday March 11th, early morning: the Reserve Protocol recognizes a depeg in USDC via oracle price feeds, setting both the cUSDC and aUSDC collateral in the “iffy” state, which started a 24-hour clock. If it was still depegged after 24 hours, the protocol would declare the default.
Sunday March 12th, midday: the protocol declares USDC as defaulted and decides to act immediately to protect eUSD holders. It launches on-chain auctions where it sells off the cUSDC and aUSDC collateral for the predefined emergency collateral (in this case USDT) at an average price of ~$0.955 per USDC, leaving eUSD about 98% backed with collateral in the basket.
The next step was for the protocol to sell staked RSR in order to cover that difference and bring the backing back to 100%. Under normal operations, that would happen pretty much right away. However, the protocol detected a tiny discrepancy — about 1 millionth of a token less was sent back from the auction contract than it expected.

Since the protocol defaults to safety in all situations and is designed to halt trading if there is _any_ discrepancy to avoid potential losses, governance will have to vote to re-enable trading. Once the 7-day governance cycle is complete, assuming the proposal passes (and there is no real reason to vote against it, since RSR stakers can’t unstake until the default is resolved), it will sell RSR to fill the 2% gap.

This isn’t a real risk or problem for eUSD holders, since it is pretty much deterministic that the auction will end up happening and the gap will be filled. But it does mean that it won’t be done for another 7 days, instead of already being done now.

eUSD: A Robust Stablecoin Alternative
To conclude this article, let us contrast the perspectives of USDC and eUSD holders during this weekend’s events.

Amid the depegging, numerous USDC holders were left anxious and unsure of their ability to maintain their purchasing power, prompting some to sell their holdings at a loss. In contrast, eUSD holders could rely on the on-chain protection mechanisms provided by the Reserve Protocol. They witnessed firsthand how the protocol protected their purchasing power, even before the FDIC could intervene, without requiring any action on their part.

While RTokens are very new and have yet to fully establish themselves, this weekend’s events highlighted their robustness and resilience.

Ultimately, the primary objective of stablecoin holders is for their money to remain stable. Over the course of the weekend, the Reserve Protocol demonstrated its ability to satisfy this essential requirement by providing its holders with a crucial sense of assurance and stability.
