Link: https://blog.reserve.org/mitigating-depeg-risk-e3d9e015ac8d
Title: Mitigating Depeg Risk

River
Reserve
River

·
Follow

Published in
Reserve

·
5 min read
·
Sep 13
2

After introducing this series and explaining how the protocol mitigates smart contract risk, allow contributors in this installment the opportunity to explain how RTokens differ in design from existing stablecoins and thus are not as susceptible to depegging.

Last year, Terra collapsed due to a design (flaw) that depegged its UST stablecoin. Since the UST stablecoin was backed endogenously (i.e. by an asset that’s value was tied to UST), unstoppable panic selling ensued once the depeg began. In the end, the entire protocol crumbled and the crisis erased billions from the market.

More recently, USDC, considered the most reputable stablecoin, fell victim to depeg following the Silicon Valley Bank bankruptcy. While it eventually returned to peg, the lack of transparency during the event caused mass panic leading to a similar bank run scenario. Since then, the demand for USDC is down 35%+, illustrating lower confidence in Circle.

This section examines how Reserve Protocol reduces depeg risk and discusses the features that allow the protocol to remain resilient in times of extreme volatility.

Let’s start with how permissionless and transparent protocol operations allow RTokens to resist bank runs and maintain peg.

Redeemability
The RToken peg is maintained by allowing full minting and redeeming for the underlying collateral onchain. RTokens are always backed 1:1 with collateral under regular conditions. Should the price of the RToken in the secondary market deviate from the value of collateral, there is an arbitrage opportunity. Participants looking to restore the peg can redeem the RToken to claim the underlying assets (or vice versa) and profit. This incentivizes a strong 1:1 peg.

Redeemability has another purpose: reducing uncertainty. Uncertainty arises when people can’t verify if their money is actually accessible. However, with Reserve, users can easily check the collateral supporting any RToken and verify that it is adequately backed — more on this in next installment.

To maintain the peg, RToken redemptions are completely permissionless and always fully available. Nevertheless, it is possible that RToken collateral itself may cause the RToken peg to break. To address this, Reserve is designed with another feature: diversification of collateral backing. Instead of relying on a single asset, RTokens accept a variety of collateral types, which reduces the surface area risk associated with any one collateral failing.

This feature gains its strength from diversification and guards against cratering asset value.

Overcollateralization
The second feature that reduces depeg risk is staked RSR overcollateralization, which exists as a mechanism to keep RToken holders whole in the event of a collateral token default.

RSR holders can decide to stake RSR on any one or multiple RTokens. These RSR stakers receive a portion of the revenue from the RToken that they chose to overcollateralize. For example, High Yield USD (hyUSD) stakers earn 16% (at time of writing) of the yield generated by the token.

Should (any) one of the assets in the RToken basket lose its value, the protocol would initially sell all “faulty” collateral for pre-determined emergency collateral. If there is still a shortfall in the value of the backing, it would then seize staked RSR from those who staked on the affected RToken and use it to buy enough emergency collateral to fill the hole.

This mechanism was put to the test during the USDC depeg earlier this year, when Electronic Dollar (eUSD), an RToken, successfully returned to peg days before USDC did. This system passed its first test with flying colors. Indeed, the stakers whose capital was sold off to recapitalize eUSD have also been made whole by this point too. RTokens overcollateralization has been tested and has proven to work both functionally and economically.

In the event an RToken remains undercollateralized even after seizing and selling all staked RSR, the affected RToken holders can redeem their RTokens for a proportional distribution of backing collateral rather than first-come-first-served exit. This is novel in DeFi and reduces the impact of issues experienced by debt protocols. In implementing this, Reserve is protecting user funds and boosting safety.

These two features work in tandem to actually penalize RToken panic redeemers. If they wait for the RSR auction, they will be made whole. If the auction is insufficient to repeg the RToken, then the proportional distribution system will result in a higher return than a panic dump. This is the sort of intentional and innovative mechanism design that Reserve contributors spend months considering.

Mitigating bank-runs
This double system of penalizing panic sellers and RToken overcollateralization acts as an “anti-bank-run” mechanism. To begin, these tokens are redeemable for hard (i.e. exogenous) collateral, which prevents a rush of RToken holders to avoid being the last one with deposits left in the protocol. It is impossible to be left with an unbacked RToken in this way. The proof of reserves for this collateral is always verifiable onchain and is overcollateralized by the RSR staking mechanism.

Should the overcollateralization not fully recapitalize the RToken, those looking to receive the hard collateral underlying the RToken will only be able to do so proportionally (as opposed to first come first serve, which is the norm in DeFi). All of these features reduce the chance of a bank run occurring in the first place, and should it come to that then there is no incentive to get your collateral out of the RToken earlier. Excluding a hyperinflation event, the likelihood of a bank run occurring on an RToken is extremely low.

For an example of a protocol that did not prevent the negative consequences of a bank run, see Iron Finance. Reserve’s careful design and intentional development has gone some way to make this event significantly less likely to happen to RTokens.

Conclusion
While depeg risk remains prominent throughout DeFi, Reserve has taken prudent steps to reduce the risk for its RTokens. The Reserve Protocol counteracts depeg risk through diverse 1:1 asset-backing, permissionless minting and redeeming, and a novel RSR overcollateralization mechanism. In doing so, it reduces capital loss in the event of an underlying asset depegging.

All this has been field tested (the USDC crisis and the Electronic Dollar RToken) and has functioned as intended — no small feat in a field as experimental as DeFi. This system is the cornerstone of the Reserve protocol.

This concludes the depeg mitigation section of this series. If readers would like to discuss or get clarifications on how the protocol works to mitigate the risk of RToken depegging, the core development team invites them to join Reserve’s Discord.

This marks the halfway point in the series, which will be continued next with a section detailing the increased safety gained from RToken design choices when dealing with counterparties.
