Link: https://blog.reserve.org/reserve-protocol-ama-thomas-mattimore-head-of-platform-62dd19d1d00c
Title: Reserve Protocol AMA — Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

This article is a summary of the AMA between the Reserve community and Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform) in the unofficial Reserve Lodge Telegram group.

The following text was edited for clarity.

1. Introduction
   1.1 Community:

Welcome Thomas. Thank you for joining us.

Lets start with the easy ones — you are Head of Platform at Reserve, what does that mean, how does your job look like each day?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Sure — my mission is the protocol team’s mission: increase adoption of & expand access to sustainable, inflation proof, stable currency.

I lead the team and split my time between product/engineering, growth, DeFi strategy, and various administrive things to ensure the trains run on time.

My background is in product management so I spend a lot of time with engineering team helping to prioritize, figure out tradeoffs, and figure out exactly what to build.

1.2 Community

How would you describe the Reserve project in a few sentences?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform):

Reserve’s mission is to increase adoption of & expand access to sustainable, inflation proof, stable currency. One team is building a protocol that allows anyone to permissionlessly launch, manage, and govern a decentralized, yield bearing, stable currency. Another team is focused on expanding access to stable currencies in places they are most needed and they can have the largest impact. That has been Latam for the last few years!

2. RPay
   2.1 Community

We’ve collected a lot of questions about RPay — so before we continue, can you explain the difference between RPay and Reserve’s RToken platform, how is this structured within Reserve?

Do you communicate and plan together on how to grow RTokens, or is RPay focused solely on the app and your team on the RToken growth?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Definitely — the two teams are building complementary products (Protocol + RPay) that both fit together to work towards the mission. We definitely coordinate quite a bit, but in many ways operate as two separate companies.

RPay is focused on the app and the protocol team is focused on the protocol and growing the ecosystem.

The protocol enables anyone to launch RTokens, which we believe are fairly novel products, and RPay is a way for people around Latin America (and hopefully the world!) to access those products.

We communicate quite a bit but have different short term goals, priorities, etc.

2.2 Community

Currently there’s only one RToken (eUSD) being used in the RPay app. Do you plan on offering another RToken as a “savings dollar” in the RPay app?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

RPay and other apps are all good potential distribution methods for something like that. It will ultimately be RPay’s decision on that front but yield is something that everyone loves!

They have a variety of growth initiatives ongoing at the moment. Adding new RTokens will need to be prioritized among those.

3. Reserve Protocol
   3.1 Community

Another easy one — what are RTokens, and what is the utility of RSR?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

The protocol is a platform that enables anyone to launch an asset backed currency. That ABC, if you will, is 1:1 backed by collateral deployed in DeFi that generates yield, has overcollateralization from governance, monitors for defaults, can self-heal if necessary, and can split the yield among various parties.

RSR is the governance token that can be used on each ABC launched on the platform. If an RSR holder chooses to stake on a particular RToken/ABC, then they can participate in basket and revenue allocation, are the first capital at risk in case of a default, and in return can be eligible for a portion of the yield generated by the backing collateral.

3.2 Community

Reserve does not deploy its own RTokens, why is that?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Decentralization is an important piece of the puzzle to us. We believe it helps us achieve the “stable” part of currency in the long term. So we are focused on getting variety of folks and parties from around the world involved. Since we made that annoucnement, its been so fun to see all the ideas generated outside of “what the reserve team can think of”.

Also, portfolio design and basket allocation is a really really hard problem! We don’t think we can look in the mirror and honestly say that we know the answer to “how every person in the world should preserve their wealth and grow it over time”. This is a huge part of why we built the protocol as a _platform_ that allows anyone to permissionlessly experiment. We believe iteration and experimentation is important piece of discovery, so we tried to lower the barrier of entry to experimentation as much as possible.

3.3 Community

What are your plans to raise awareness around the protocol/RSR and to make it more known in the industry?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

We are discussing with core DeFi folks all the time. A big focus of ours is building “social proof” by demonstrating that these things are useful.

For instance, if people in DeFi keep seeing eUSD as the highest yield on the Curve Finance page (homepage of DeFi for farmers), they’ll be wondering whats going on and go check it out.

That being said, we have continuous outreach and ongoing BizDev efforts. In fact, we have an open DeFi marketing/comms role that James is currently hiring 🙂

3.4 Community

Many people are asking if the Reserve investors (Peter Thiel, Sam Altman, Coinbase, and others) will be involved in raising awareness about the protocol and RPay.

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Maybe, but this is not something we plan to rely on. Products and platforms win because they solve problems for people, not because famous investors mention them. My suspicion is that crypto generally is going to focus more on product market fit and utility in coming years. That is definitely our focus right now.

3.5 Community

Can you explain why Reserve holds CVX and how this can help RToken growth? Does Reserve intend to buy more CVX? Will this scale with the TVL of RTokens currently deployed?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Liquidity is important for RTokens. CVX allows us to leverage Curve and Convex community governance to incentivize deep liquidity of RTokens. We also hold StakeDAO’s sdCRV for the same reason actually! Always exploring ways to maximize our governance power there.

4. RToken Deployers
   4.1 Community

Based on your conversations with potential deployers, what are the biggest barriers potential deployers cite that’s stopping them from pulling the trigger? What can the community do to help?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Based on conversations with deployers so far, we’re getting lots of feedback on how to make the platform easier to use, especially when deploying new RTokens.

So little things like improving the UX, making it easier to tweak governance parameters, etc. Also, explaining _how_ and _why_ to set various parameters to ensure the RToken behaves as expected.

We added lots of flexibility to the protocol when designing because flexibility and adaptability is important to sustain as a product over time. BUT, it does make it a bit challenging to think about all the various scenarios and game theory on how to prevent attacks.

So we’ve been nailing down a “deployer guide” to help folks think about things like governance parameters, trading parameters, etc.

Because the protocol automates lots of the decision making, it is important to ensure people understand what actions it will take in various situations! Autonomous and decentralized monetary policy is very very cool 😏

4.2 Community

What is your advice for potential RToken deployers, what kind of RToken would you like to see someone create and what support can the Reserve team provide in promoting them and growing them? What kind of plugins can we expect to become available soon?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

We released a couple plugins I’m super excited about this week:

- Compound V3 USDC
- Flux finance fTokens — which is essentially treasury yield onchain
- Convex/Curve pools for the MIM pool and eUSD pools
- ETH LSDs like rETH and stETH

We’re trying to focus on plugins that unblock conversations that have been in progress. For instance, LSDs that have oracles unblocked ETH+ from launching this week. And you can guess on what the other ones unblock soon 🙂

In terms of advice for deployers, think of the RToken like a product. What are the value props, competitive advantages, branding, growth plans, etc.

We can and are assisting on all the above.

TBD on next plugins. This will be dependent on what potential deployers are asking for. But we prioritize to unblock deployers while taking into consideration things like “ease of developing”, TVL, yield, safety, etc.

4.3 Community

Do you expect any top 100 crypto protocol to make their own RTokens? Any interesting potential partnerships happening behind the scenes?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

I’m not going to share any specific information about partnerships or disclose private information that potential partners shared with us without their permission. At the end of the day, BizDev relies on trust and me sharing things here would be counterproductive.

But, I am excited to see larger DeFi protocols deploy and use RTokens (which is just as important!). Since eUSD was launched I believe two DAOs have allocated treasury to the eUSD pool on Curve — which is awesome! PieDAO publicly did it and I’m blanking on the other one.

A funny thing to remember is we are still very early in DeFi. I know, I know, its a cliche. But DeFi protocols and DeFi users are still quite small compared to other industries — eUSD is already a top 25 stablecoin on Ethereum!

Will today’s top ten be next years top ten? Who knows!

4.4 Community

Are potential deployers more interested in yield or security? Is there a particular need that emerged from these conversations?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

I think both yield and security being available in a single product is actually something distinct to RTokens! Hard to really say just one or the other as what people like most, it’s really both.

One piece of friction we’ve noticed is gas costs, especially as jaredfromsubway is eating up blockspace. We’re exploring ways to reduce friction in the RToken minting process. Actually, we have a really cool “Zap” in testing now that will let people mint RTokens from a single token (like USDC) in the most gas efficient way possible — all in a single transaction.

4.5 Community

Are you also talking to potential deployers outside crypto?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

I think its a huge opportunity in the long term. Short term we are focused on DeFi natives. But in my opinion it’s unlikely that people directly use DeFi in the long term. It will be the backbone and security/settlement layer, while normal people will barely know its “powered by crypto”.

Use RPay as an example. Many users don’t know or care that its “crypto”. They care that they can safely access and use dollars.

5. RTokens
   5.1 Community

How do you intend to grow the currently largest RToken, eUSD? It has a market cap of over $10 million, most of which seems to be due to RPay usage and some from Curve incentivized pools.

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Yep — RPay, Curve, and the Mobilecoin bridge are the 3 largest users. Looking forward to seeing it get integrated in other places. Ultimately, it is up to those platforms to do it but we’re helping explain it to as many people as possible.

5.2 Community

RSV had a market cap of $30 million, we assume part of this was Reserve’s treasury. Not all of it was swapped to eUSD, do you intend to do this?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

We hold the treasury in the best way to preserve/grow spending power (runway to reach our mission). We think RTokens could be a great way to preserve and grow spending power and actually already have some held in eUSD (same wallet as CVX/etc). There will likely be more treasury held in RTokens over time.

5.3 Community

Is Reserve reaching out or talking to some exchanges about providing eUSD pairs? Is this Reserve’s focus, integrating eUSD as a crypto trading pair?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Circle tried really hard for a long time to get USDC trading pairs around the crypto exchange ecosystem. They found it challenging to unseat USDT there because trading liquidity is so sticky, causing getting USDC trading pairs around the world to be deprioritized.

I expect that won’t be the path to growth for RTokens. But maybe! Money is ultimately as useful as how and where it can be used. We’d love to see the availability grow.

5.4 Community

Are the rumors about eUSD and Signal true? 😉

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

MobileCoin is the only blockchain currently integrated into Signal. eUSD is the only stablecoin on MobileCoin’s blockchain. I hope Signal chooses to integrate eUSD, but this is ultimately up to them!

6. Miscellaneous
   6.1 Community

What (Reserve-wise) keeps you awake at night? What is your worst fear?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

As I mentioned, my background is in product. So I’m constantly worried about people not wanting the product. But it has been exciting to see social proof grow and this helps me sleep easier.

6.2 Community

Does the team have internal milestones how they track success? Where would you like to see the Reserve Protocol ecosystem by the end of this year in terms of TVL and number of deployers?

Thomas Mattimore (Head of Platform)

Our north star this year is TVL. We’ve got some hunches on which RTokens and which use cases getting solved might be necessary to get there but ultimately it’s up to the market to decide there. TVL is the number one thing I check on every day though.

📚 Did this blog post spark your interest in Reserve and/or RTokens? Come join the conversation on Discord or follow us on Twitter.
