Link:  https://twitter.com/reserveprotocol/status/1636068495099318272
Title: 1636068495099318272

1/ eUSD Emerges Strong: The Resilience of Reserve Protocol During USDC Depegging

So that was a weekend! Let's break down some of the events that happened, and what it means to the protocol, and to RSR stakers. 🧵

2/ With the Silicon Valley Bank facing a bank run, and Circle (the issuer of USDC) having $3.3bn of its $40bn reserves there, there were fears that USDC was in trouble, with the dollar-pegged stable currency trading under $1 (and down to 87c at one point). https://t.co/03pXFrzqtd

3/ In good news for anyone using USDC, the crisis ended, but let's focus in on two impacts this had on Reserve:

A) eUSD, the first RToken, went through  first stress test and recovered way before the banks reopened on Monday!

B) RPay will start using eUSD next week 🔥

4/ So let's jump back three weeks, when @mobilecoin launched the first RToken - eUSD. This stable currency was backed by:

25% aUSDC
25% aUSDT
25% cUSDC
25% cUSDT

and governed and overcollateralized by RSR stakers. https://t.co/wR22GQGHV3

5/ What we did not expect was a stress test of the protocol so quickly!

We've been able to watch the alarm system work, and see the protocol automatically enter protective mode, in this short period before the eUSD marketcap begins scaling up.

6/ Let's put two hypotheticals in your mind:

A) A world where USDC ended up with a sustained or even catastrophic de-pegging (luckily it didn't).

B) Or a world with everything being rosy with eUSD for six months, before the first real test came along.

7/ Instead, what we had was a light test early on, with practical findings and consequences.

The Protocol reacted all on its own, with no governance or input from the team (a community member redeemed some eUSD, which made the protocol check oracle feeds, but that was all!)

8/ The protocol automatically put USDC collaterals into "iffy" status, and 24 hours later swapped for eUSD's emergency basket (in this case USDC to Tether).

The result: eUSD (and eUSD's users) seamlessly, transparently, on-chain restored to full backing(*) ahead of the market.

9/ By Sunday midday, eUSD had returned to its peg, a day before the banks reopened and many hours before regulators announced a response for SVB:

https://t.co/YGkaIKNYFL

10/ (*) The protocol should have auctioned staked RSR overcollateralization to make up the shortfall in the basket.

But its always protecting against bad trades - and when it detected an inconsistency for a millionth of a token, it kicked off a delayed process 👉 https://t.co/GLlsiiZkER

11/ That auction process will be carried out later in the week (see tweet below), and meanwhile the self-protecting protocol is a great example of giving the team something to consider and maybe tweak following this first live case 💥

https://t.co/a0d0YSJjOZ

12/ The Reserve Protocol allows the self-healing nature of eUSD - once completed, staking, yield, governance, can all resume as usual.

Drop into the Discord to learn about the protocol and the future of permissionless 1:1 asset-backed currency 👉
https://t.co/e75AURpZZT

13/ And here is the article version of eUSD's weekend events:

https://t.co/kFircmj5Xg

14/ Next week, the RPay app, with more than $5 billion in cumulative volume in LATAM, will transition to eUSD as its native stablecoin, giving its users the robustness, transparency, multi-asset, governance powers of RTokens!

A deeper dive into RPay's transition tomorrow!🔥