Link:  https://twitter.com/reserveprotocol/status/1636427205353050112
Title: 1636427205353050112

3/ The plan has always been to replace the simple stablecoin RSV with all the powers of a decentralized RToken, but we thought it may take longer than "three weeks after All Clear"!

4/ Only a month ago(!), the Paxos/BUSD drama meant RPay excluded BUSD from the RSV basket, and for the first time, RSV was reliant on only one other stablecoin - USDC - rather than being split across 3 or 4 assets.

5/ It starts to be clear why there is a need for a stable currency that has:

- a diversified basket of assets
- dutiful governance paired with overcollateralization
- a protocol that can automatically swap out risky assets

6/ And now two things have happened that have led to deeper confidence in RPay using the protocol:

7/ 

A) While RSV was reliant on USDC during a depegging incident, eUSD could swap quickly into a more robust backing situation. What if USDC had had sustained issues?

8/ 

B) The protocol has been battle-tested! It's earned some stripes in the real world, demonstrated that it works.

Testing (and testing, and auditing) is one thing, but the protocol has now been on the road, tackled some hills, valleys, met a weekend Black Swan - and passed! https://t.co/tWeyM1a0BA

9/ The Protocol is there for anyone to use, but we have long been excited about it being ready for RPay.

The events of the last few weeks have accelerated that, showing both the need and the merit - the protocol is ready!

10/ So RPay will continue giving 100,000s of people and merchants the ability to use dollar-pegged, digital, stable currency in an ever-growing list of countries.

And from next week, it will come with the robustness, transparency, multi-asset, governance superpowers of RTokens!

11/ We expect RPay to mint ~$6m of eUSD as the first round, and this may change over time as MobileCoin, RPay, or even other companies understand the strengths of eUSD (and maybe other incoming RTokens) compared to other stable currencies in the world.

12/ We really thought this week would be us talking about new collateral plugins that are about to land on the Reserve Protocol.

Instead we've gone through a speedrun "trial by fire", and the community has taken note, accelerating experimentation and adoption!

13/ Here is the long form post in Spanish and English from the RPay team on the transition to eUSD ✅

https://t.co/1Mx6eUbtOd

14/ We look forward to RPay utilizing the protocol fully, if you'd like to get to know RSV's journey and what's coming next with eUSD, this video is for you: https://t.co/8uENZF6hkB