Link:  https://twitter.com/reserveprotocol/status/1658886078689067019
Title: 1658886078689067019

Wen auction?

RSR community members are often excited for when the next eUSD revenue auction occurs so they can realize revenue

Reserve's auctions can be automated by MEV searchers seeking profit

Let's unravel the thought process/timing for conducting auctions
🔎🧵

2/ First of all, why auction?

RSR stakers recognize revenue in the form of RSR purchased during auctions which sell rewards that the RToken has accumulated. Read more here: https://t.co/EnAL6fXbca

3/ The Reserve Protocol was designed to be decentralized - so it's not up to any single party to foot the gas bills and push the protocol along

Incentives are baked into the RSR/RToken revenue auctions design to present an economic opportunity for MEV searchers to help out

4/ The key factors for participation include:
   • gas costs
   • accumulated RToken revenue

See this spreadsheet for how much revenue has accumulated on eUSD, which we'll use in our analysis https://t.co/REjrop2YLT https://t.co/bp25XQmxRa

5/ Let's consider only the case of uniform appreciation (based on the underlying token with the lowest revenue value, cUSDC), which lets the protocol mint &amp; auction $17.5k worth of eUSD for RSR

There will be leftover rewards, but the calculations below apply equally to them

6/ Now let's pretend we're a MEV searcher 🕵️

eUSD allows 1% trade slippage, meaning the worst price the auction will accept is $17.5k * 0.99 = $17325. The difference ($175) is what the MEV searcher can pocket

If gas costs exceed $175, then this doesn't make sense for them 🙅‍♀️

7/ So what is the gas cost? ⛽️

Below are the bare minimum tx the searcher has to execute for executing a revenue auction. These add up to 0.1377 ETH in a 75 gwei gas environment, or $252 https://t.co/NBkcpcWnlV

8/ So at current revenues &amp; gas, it would be uneconomical for searchers to autonomously run the auctions. The revenue ($175) exceeds the costs ($252)

The calculus constantly changes as the variables can fluctuate. If gas was halved for example, we would be profitable 🤑

9/ So again, wen auction?

Holding the variables in this example constant, we expect profitability to be reached in ~37 days (it's been 26 days since the last auction)

Hopefully this shines some light onto what informs the timing of RSR revenue auctions ⌛

10/ What actually happens within these auctions? Look forward to another tweet thread explaining this process soon!

In the meantime, join the discussion in our Discord, now wielding some new knowledge 🧠
https://t.co/CJoYGTBvZx

Any MEV searchers interested? 👀
https://t.co/vMABKXIdkW

@bertcmiller @NotDeGhost @0xmisaka @0xcarnation @Tristan0x @mevalphaleak @thebensams @EdgarArout @TTx0x @0xEdgar @0xtuba @JaredMEV