Link:  https://twitter.com/reserveprotocol/status/1676638277577703444
Title: 1676638277577703444

A new request-for-comments (RFC) has been posted on the Reserve governance forums 🔔

This RFC proposes a modification to how RTokens are governed, so it's an important one! 

Please make sure visit the RFC at the end of this thread and leave your comments.

Governor Alexios is the default RToken governance system, based on @OpenZeppelin's Governor contract. All RTokens are currently using it.

RTokens are governed by users who have staked their $RSR onto the RToken.

More here: https://t.co/lGoRrQBo4n

This system of governance is fully onchain.

As it stands, RTokens are fully upgradable after a period of 8 days of onchain activity.

There is also no way to distinguish one change from another, regardless of its significance. https://t.co/tNmvsV8cjB

This may cause problems:

RToken holders unable to follow governance closely may hold assets they do not want to unwittingly.

Significant RToken changes are implemented perhaps too quickly and relatively insignificant RToken changes have too much friction to be timely.

To solve this problem, the RFC proposes splitting proposed changes into two categories: structural and routine.

Structural changes are of greater consequence (and require more consideration), and routine are less significant (so enjoy reduced governance friction). https://t.co/P2Fnk3qKKg

An example of a structural change is upgrading to a new governance system or adding an entirely new collateral (e.g. adding $USDT backing to $eUSD).

A routine change would be something that changes the RToken less, such as changing RToken backing ratios.

In addition to these changes, the RFC proposes to concrete the voting period for the Community Guardian's veto at 3 days.

The RFC concedes there will be a small increase in governance complexity, but that the benefits of adjusting friction appropriately outweigh this cost.

The proposed updates aim to improve governance, accommodate evolving needs, but is shared in the spirit of collaborative ideation.

What do you think? Weigh in downstairs...

https://t.co/uj5Kz9BP8g