Link:  https://twitter.com/reserveprotocol/status/1700247339104084455
Title: 1700247339104084455

1/

🦺 What a week! 🦺

The protocol hopes everyone gets their beauty sleep because next week the protocol wants undivided attention on the most important of topics in DeFi.

Introducing: Reserve's Safety Week https://t.co/3ASJ2CuKPD

2/

As countless exploits, bad mechanism design and malicious actors have shown, it's hard to achieve anything in DeFi if the code being used works against the wishes of those participating.

Reserve wants to make sure the community knows the steps it takes to promote safety.

3/

Enter next week's Safety Principles series.

This four-part series breaks down every step contributors have made to ensure that the protocol remains as safe as it can be.

1️⃣ To begin, every step taken to increase Reserve's smart safety will be detailed.

4/

2️⃣ Following that, contributors will explain how they've gone to great lengths to reduce the impact of potential RToken depegging.

3️⃣ The penultimate topic discussed will be how Reserve mitigates counterparty risk, relying on DeFi's open nature.

5/

4️⃣ The protocol will round off the series with a primer on how it mitigates governance risk.

5️⃣ It will be then concluded with a discussion about the entire process.

Contributors emphasize that security is key to Reserve's culture - it cannot be fit into just one week.

6/

Nevertheless, the protocol endeavours to translate its importance - starting with this series.

Safety's importance to the protocol cannot be understated. After reading through and discussing it, the protocol is hopeful the community understands both why and how.

7/

Contributors aim to give the community a sense of how much work goes into keeping funds safe and how critical this topic is to the success of the Reserve vision.

🦺 This series begins at 9am PST on Monday. Come ready to take notes! 🦺